>> ThePrimeagen: So let's start
with our first kind of script here.
We still have four points left to address
for my perfect terminal navigation system,
which is gonna be multiple sessions
running based on directory.
Navigate to sessions
with a name instantly.
Fuzzy find for those directories and
run a script when I create new sessions.
Those are what I consider the ultimate
experience of directories.
So we're gonna start with 0.6 cuz I think
0.6 is the easiest, run a script or
whatever programs I want when
I navigate to a directory.
Whenever I create a new session,
I have now created a new session that's
gonna point to say, I don't know, dev.
When it runs here, I want it to do two
things, one, I want it to check for
some special dot file,
what we can call this ready or ready-tmux.
I spelled that way wrong,
just go with it, all right?
Spelling is not a sign of intelligence,
trust me, I'm right.
Or it goes and checks in the home
directory for the exact same thing.
I'm gonna keep misspelling it, that way
if I land into a folder, it checks for
a specific startup script, or it attempts
to run, say, a generalized startup script.
So that way I have this nice kind of
motion, and this is shockingly easy.
So we're just gonna write
the script really, really easily.
I'm gonna go to dev-en, and
we're gonna be right here, and
I'm gonna write a nice
little script right here.
And first off, let's just create,
what do we wanna call this?
I wanna call this thing, I'm gonna
create a directory called local, and
inside of local,
I'm gonna create something called bin.
And inside of bin, I'm gonna create
something called ready-tmux.
And so notice that I did local bin ready,
this is a place where a lot of times
people put all their kind
of local executables.
It probably would be better to
create something called local,
I just thought of this this morning.
I should just probably have local scripts,
and those are my scripts as opposed to bin
being executable that
may be installed there.
So that way I don't wipe out
a directory with executables
cuz you don't wanna store executables in
your get, you wanna store the scripts.
Probably better ways to do this,
but here we are, okay, people.
We're right here, and
we're just gonna live with all
the consequences of our life.
We are building out a script
that's going to look for
a file that's in the directory that we're
currently in, and attempt to execute it.
Or it's gonna look for a global script
that's in the home directory and
execute that.
That way with tmux,
as we navigate to a new directory and
create a new session,
we can then also execute this.
So that way, if you like to have a couple
panes, if you like to have things
organized in such a way, it will
just automatically do that for you.
All right, sounds good,
it's a relatively simple script to write.
The reason why I write
all these things and
kinda we're going over all this
like painful, excruciating detail.
I think a lot of people think
these things are complicated,
they're really just not
all that complicated.
They're actually rather simple activities,
it's just taking advantage of path and
a bit of bash.
So we're gonna go like this.
So if you do a -x, that will actually say,
is this thing executable?
-x, you get it?
Yeah, looks pretty good.
So what I'll do is, if inside of this
directory there's something called
ready-tmux and it's executable, well,
then we will execute ready-tmux.
Yeah, else we can actually do, what is it,
else if, is that how you do that?
Is that how you do that in crazy language?
Elif, there is an executable in
my home that's called ready-tmux.
We will also execute that,
or we will execute that.
We won't also, we will execute that,
and then I'll just do a quick clear.
So anything afterwards that has happened,
any extra printouts, anything like that,
boom, get rid of everything.
You have a nice little screen,
everything looks pretty good.
Now, I have this in my local bin, I'm
actually gonna rename this one to scripts,
I'm gonna start this whole scripts thing.
And I've never done this
we're doing this live.
So I'm just gonna do a quick
little look in my adult local,
cuz I don't wanna destroy everything.
Do I have something called scripts?
No, I don't, so this should
theoretically work out just fine.
So I'm gonna go to my dev-env, I'm gonna
take this, I'm gonna take local, and
I'm just gonna simply go, home/ .local.
There we go, so I'm gonna copy
the directory from local to my local here.
So that should just create
a script directory.
Now, just to make sure that I'm not
completely terrible at programming,
let's throw a quick draw in there.
What do we got in here?
Do you see the local?
All right, here we go, so I'm going to
delete the local folder right here, and
then I'm going to run, or
then I'm gonna copy over this right here.
There's some extra periods,
but that's not a big deal.
All right, do it all, make it happen,
fantastic, so now we have that.
This is not something I was
planning on keeping so for
now I'm just gonna do
a little hand edit right now.
And I'm just gonna add
to path really quickly.
So don't worry about that
local Scripts there we go,
right, I'm gonna get rid of that.
Cuz I don't know what to do yet,
I still gotta think about
how I want to organize that.
But for now,
that means I should be able to go echo
$PATH grep -o -local/scripts, right?
There it is, okay, so we do have it
in there, yay, which means also,
I should be able to go in here.
And whoopsie daisies, let's go right
here and go, let's go ls into here.
There you go, ready-tmux,
which means that.ready-tmux,
let's just make sure I might
actually have multiple of these.
So let me just make sure I
don't have multiple of those.
So we have the same experience which
ready-tmux, that's gonna be in scripts,
fantastic, okay.
So there we go, we can see that
we have my ready-tmux right here.
So if I execute that,
if I go ready-tmux it just simply cleared,
didn't do anything nothing
actually happened.
So that means if were to vim and
go actually hold on,
let's go do I have something just
to make sure I don't, okay good.
I might forget to delete a few things.
So that means if i jump in here and
I go ready-tmux theoretically I could
have something in here that's gonna
be executable, user, bin and bash.
Do that, I'll go tmux, new window.
So I'm just gonna have it create a new
window, and I'm gonna name ii foo, foo,
all right?
Yeah, right, sounds fantastic, so now,
if I go ready-tmux, did that not work?
Are you not entertained?
Did I mess that up?
I didn't make it executable,
bam, executable.
So now I should be able to do that, we
created a new thing, now notice, it runs.
This is exactly what we wanted to see,
right?
It should always run this way, when I do
it again, it should just hopefully, boom,
we got it again, okay, Fantastic.
So now we've been kind of built that like
that just tiny little bit we needed,
which is not a lot like that's
a very simple script to write.
And now it just sits somewhere
where it's executable, and
now we just simply got to
take advantage of it now.
So let's go back here,
we did all that very easy.
Look at that,
it's pretty much identical code.
It's like I planned this before,
all right, that was pretty cool, right?
We could even take it and you could
technically like bind it to a tmux, key so
you could do, I don't know,
Ctrl A capital S, and it'd be,
whoosh, ready up your environment.
Or you could attach to
your window manager, or
you could do some sort of mod and
capital S or whatever you wanna do,
or you could put it in Zish and
do something with that.
But think none of those are very useful,
cuz I don't ever want to
manually execute that script.
I just want that script to exist and
execute when I open up a new tmux session.
So let's do that, so there we go.
So now we only have three things left,
we have multiple sessions
running based on directory.
We should be able to navigate
to any of these directories, and
we should be able to Fuzzy
find any of those directories.
So we're gonna do a quick detour,
I'm gonna show you one of my greatest
things of all time or not my.
One of my favorite things of all time,
which is FCF.
FCF is absolutely fantastic.
Here's how you would install it,
we could, theoretically, in dev end,
you could add this under,
say, a libs thing.
You could add in get clone, this FCF.
You could then do this, and then on your
zsh profile, you could also have this
right here, which says, hey, if this
thing is a file, then source that file.
And that little zsh thing has some
extra cool stuff associated with it.
So I can do this, when I press Ctrl R,
instead of going and
doing a recursive search up your
history where you start typing and
it shows you one result, instead you
get this beautiful fuzzy finder.
So if I go Vim, you can see all
the different ways I've vimed, right?
If I go git clone, you can see all
the different dumb things I put.
This right here, crazy programming
language in which you have to
try to specify how to teach
the AI is what you want.
It's just crazy, right?
And so
you can do anything you want right there.
So now it's like a really nice fuzzy find
that also allows you to select things out.
But here's where it gets really good,
if I go like this,
echo 1\n2\n3\n, and I take that and
I pipe it into FCF.
Notice I can choose which one I want.
So anything go into FCF, and then you
can fuzzy, find over the top of it.
You can go like this,
I want three, notice what it did,
the standard in gave it its input,
the standard out gave out what I select.
So I just selected 3, and
that's all it gave me.
So you can see the power that
we're about to have here,
the power is just incredible, right?